.\" Manpage for json2csv.
.\" Contact luca.vercelli.to@gmail.com to correct errors or typos.
.TH man 1 "08 Sep 2023" "1.1" "json2csv man page"
.SH NAME
json2csv \- convert one or more files from JSON to CSV format 
.SH SYNOPSIS
json2csv [options] <filenames>
.SH DESCRIPTION
Take one or more JSON files and convert all of them into a single CSV file.
All object attributes become columns in target file.
Arrays inside the JSON's force the CSV rows to be multiplied. 
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR        -h, --help
Displays help information and exit
.TP
.BR        -v, --version
Print program version and exit
.TP
.BR        -o, --output
Output file. If none, output will be echoed to stdout
.TP
.BR        -a, --append
Append to output file instead of overwrite.
Default: false
.TP
.BR        -r, --record-delimiter
Record delimiter. Default is Windows-style EOL \\r\\n
.TP
.BR        -f, --field-delimiter
Field delimiter.
Default: ,
.TP
.BR        -q, --quote
String delimiter (or quote). Must be a single character.
Default: "
.TP
.BR       -e, --escape
Escape character (for quote character). Must be a single character.
Default: "
.TP
.BR       -n, --nested-attribute-separator
String used to separate nested attributes in CSV header
Default: -
.TP
.BR        --max-depth
Max depth for JSON objects inspection
.TP
.BR        --skip-header
Do not print header
Default: false
.TP
.BR        --number-format
Number format for all numbers
.TP
.BR        -l, --locale
Locale, eg. en or en_US, to be used for formatting numbers. This is
alternative to --number-format.
See e.g. https://docs.oracle.com/javase/8/docs/api/java/text/DecimalFormat.html
.TP
.BR        --unix
Output suitable for *NIX pipelines. Equivalent to --skip-header -f " "
-r "\n" -q "" -e ""
.TP
.BR        -x, --exclude
Comma separated list of nodes to exclude. Path expressed in form 
aaa/bbb/2/ccc. Use * instead of number to denote all array elements.
.TP
.BR        --root
JSON root node. Path expressed in form aaa/bbb/2/ccc
.TP
.BR        -k, --filter-columns
List of columns as they will appear in output file
.TP
.BR        --oaa, --objects-as-arrays
Comma separated list of object nodes that should be considered arrays.
Sometimes a JSON object {'aa' : {...}, 'bb' : {...}} is used to denote a hash map,
so in CSV you may want to translate it into an array [{'key':'aa',...},{'key':'bb',...}].

.SH BUGS
No known bugs.
.SH AUTHOR
Luca Vercelli (luca.vercelli.to@gmail.com)
